Create more illustrative examples for SVG transform-origin (#38136)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/svg/attribute/transform-origin/index.md

You can use this attribute with any SVG element.

> [!NOTE]

> > As a presentation attribute `transform-origin` can be used as a CSS property. See {{cssxref("transform-origin")}} for more.

Reviewer: There are heaps of variants of this sentence in the docs - such as `As a presentation attribute, it also can be used as a property directly inside a CSS stylesheet`, `As a presentation attribute `baseline-shift` can be used as a CSS property.` etc)

I don't like any of them. What are we trying to say here? Maybe:

```suggestion
> The `transform-origin` presentation attribute can be overridden by the CSS {{cssxref("transform-origin")}} property.
```

Whatever we agree should be pushed to the other examples

Author: How about:

```suggestion
> As a presentation attribute, `transform-origin` also has its CSS property counterpart; see {{cssxref("transform-origin")}}. When both are specified, the CSS property takes priority.
```

Reviewer: Yes, that is very precise.

## Usage notes

> 

Reviewer: I know if predates you, but I hate this "Usage notes" section, because it is in no way "standard". In particular the link usage notes goes to the formal syntax, which is about the worse place it could go since it doesn't explain them.

Do you have time/interest in fixing this? Specifically we need to link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-origin#values instead of formal syntax. I don't know if the SVG version can take values like the CSS globals, but at least the CSS section on values covers the same things as SVG does.

If it were me I would actually replace this section/table with one called "Values" and mostly have the same information - i.e. link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-origin#values and specifically highlight the differences in reference box as you have done.

Author: Let's do that as a follow up. I'm not familiar with what the common format for SVG docs is or if there even is one, so I guess I'm more interested in providing feedback than to cobble something up myself.

Reviewer: Fair enough. This is a very clear improvement "as is".

It would be great if you could propagate the wording, as I think that is much better.

The only template for SVG is the elements: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types#svg_element_reference_page. We should make one for properties etc.

> > As a presentation attribute, `transform-origin` also has its CSS property counterpart; see {{cssxref("transform-origin")}}. When both are specified, the CSS property takes priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> As a presentation attribute, `transform-origin` also has a CSS property counterpart: {{cssxref("transform-origin")}}. When both are specified, the CSS property takes priority.
```

</table>

> [!NOTE]
> The default value of `transform-origin` is `0 0` for all SVG elements except for root `<svg>` elements and `<svg>` elements that are a direct child of a [`foreignObject`](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/foreignObject). These elements have `transform-origin: 50% 50%`, as in normal CSS.

> The lengths and percentages specified are all relative to the [reference box](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-box). Because the default value for `transform-box` is `view-box`, the transform origin coordinates are relative to the `viewBox` of the SVG element, unless the element has an associated CSS layout box itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lengths and percentages specified are all relative to the [reference box](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-box). Because the default value for `transform-box` is `view-box`, the transform origin coordinates are relative to the `viewBox` of the SVG element, unless the element itself has an associated CSS layout box.
```

> The lengths and percentages specified are all relative to the [reference box](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-box). Because the default value for `transform-box` is `view-box`, the transform origin coordinates are relative to the `viewBox` of the SVG element, unless the element itself has an associated CSS layout box.

Reviewer: The specific bug issue was that keyword references were not defined. Might as well make that crystal clear.
```suggestion
Specified lengths, percentages, and keywords (`left`, `center`, `right`, `top`, and `bottom`) are all relative to the [reference box](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-box). Because the default value for `transform-box` is `view-box`, the transform origin coordinates are relative to the `viewBox` of the SVG element, unless the element itself has an associated CSS layout box.
```

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples
```

> 

Reviewer: These are really good examples, but it took me a bit of work to understand what you were doing. A little explanation here would help. Something like?

```suggestion
The following examples demonstrate the rotation of a rectangular box 30° around a number of different `transform-origin`s.
The SVG is declared in each case with the original box drawn with a dashed red outline, followed by the rotated box drawn in lime, and then the `transform-origin` drawn as a red crosshair marker.
```
